The cookie is a lie.
How does it matter if it's antimatter?
None of this matters.
How does NASA organise a party? They planet.
Electrons are now seeing the happy things in life. We're calling these happy electrons 'Positrons.' Wait, that's taken?
This completely useless sentence will get you nowhere and you know it. What a horrible obnoxious man would come up with it, he will probably go to hell, and why would the developer even implement it? Even if you kept reading it you wouldn't be able to finish it (the first time).
"Alright" -Alright
To revive or not to revive, that is the question.
One, two, skip a few, ninety-nine, NaN!
Pop quiz: there are 3 doors, you pick a door at random, and get to keep what's behind the door. The doors have 2 golden goats, 2 silver goats, and a gold and a silver goat. After you pick a door, the door with the lowest $ worth of goats will be opened and shown to you. After this, you are given the choice to swap. What is the probability that you will swap doors?
Above us, there is nothing above, but the stars, above.
If black lives matter, do white lives antimatter?
Snakes look scary, and they absolutely are and you should run, calmly, from every snake you see. But, luckily for you, snakes don't often take the initiative to bite - excluding the really mean ones. If they've gone out of their way to bite you, there's generally 4 reasons. 1- The Snake is Mean. 2- You scared the snake. Snakes are scary to you, but you are scary to snakes. Be the bigger lizard when you meet a snake. 3- You entered the territory of the snake. Often, a snake will warn you if you do this - this is why rattle snakes rattle. If you don't listen to the warning, they'll bite you. And the most important reason, 4- the snake finds you ugly. This is the fault of the snake's ocular system, but is the most common form of bites in at least 2 jurisdictions. And if you get bitten by a snake, by virtue of being a scarily ugly lizard who keeps stumbling into the wrong bushes, there's 3 main things you can do. First, calm down, again, and stay calm. Secondly, immobilise the area around site that was bitten, and try using a compression bandage. Snake venom vision is entirely based on movement of the object it's currently in. And third, calmly, call for help from other lizards. Excluding the snake. The snake's too mean to help you.
The FitnessGram™ Pacer Test is a multistage aerobic capacity test that progressively gets more difficult as it continues. The 20 meter pacer test will begin in 30 seconds. Line up at the start. The running speed starts slowly, but gets faster each minute after you hear this signal. [beep] A single lap should be completed each time you hear this sound. [ding] Remember to run in a straight line, and run as long as possible. The second time you fail to complete a lap before the sound, your test is over. The test will begin on the word start. On your mark, get ready, start.
There always must be equal matter than there is antimatter, I guess your mom balances that a bit.
We dug a big hole to store this antimatter... Adele's rolling in it.
My dog ate too much antimatter, now he is doing 'meow!'.
If you put 42! in your calculator, it will result in 1.4050061e+51.
Don't you hate when people say "like if you agree"? Like if you agree.
Why does no one talk about the 0th dimension?
The fatter catter satter on the antimatter.
Who let the 1e249s out?
Doesn't leave, just mutes the server so he doesn't receive notifications
Chat Revival Bot doesn't have any bugs... they're alternative successes.
There are no typos in any of these news messages. If you see a typo, the tpyo must be in your brain.
Doesn't it annoy you when people don't finish their
Please insert Disc -1 to continue using Chat Revival Bot.
Hello, Vsauce, Michael here. We all know that the 9th dimension doesn't exist, but what is 9? You know it's the number after 8... right? What if... there's a number in between? And no I'm not talking about numbers like 8.5 or 8.76, I'm talking about an integer between 8 and 9. Now all this may sound crazy to you, and it kinda is, but what if, we've missed a number? We've all been taught that 2 comes after 1 and 3 comes after 2, but what if the number that comes after 8 isn't 9? After years of research and experimentation, we've finally found the number. It is dangerous, even knowing its existence will let it consume your mind, but fortunately, we've developed a reverse-containment cell, meaning it's everywhere except here. Our brain has a protection system, that specifically filters out any information regarding this number, that's how we've been able to survive for this long, and why others like us went extinct in the past, but the number has been getting stronger, slowly getting closer to breaking our protection. We've temporary stopped the number from slipping into our memory by using the world-wide memory manipulator located in this room to keep making everyone think that 9 comes after 8 with a side effect that makes everyone think that 9 is evil, but this won't last forever, as the number will keep getting stronger, and will eventually overpower the memory manipulator. That's why you're here, you're one of the most intelligent person here, and we hope you can help us on our journey to defeat that number. Our enemy is not 9, it is the hidden number between 8 and 9, the missing number.
it's nothing personal bro - all villager types.
The year is 1944, jsaidoru cannot release updates for Chat Revival Bot because he didn't exist.
"hello!", "sorry for bad english!!"
-. . ...- . .-. / --. --- -. -. .- / --. .. ...- . / -.-- --- ..- / ..- .--.